---
title: "Exercise Two"
permalink: /part-two/unit-two/exercise-two/
excerpt: "Excerpt TBA"
last_modified_at: 2019-10-25
toc: false
classes: wide
---

One or two brief sentences introducing this exercise, followed by an unordered list highlighting the high-level tasks they will accomplish in this exercise. 

Tasks should be brief sentences that directly command the reader to do something, eg. "Create a new scratch org" or "Review the.

**In this exercise, you will...**

* Create a scratch org
* Open the new scratch org
* Observe how `orgPreferenceSettings` and `securitySettings` affect scratch orgs

## Create a scratch org
Introduce the first task to the reader. Remember to use `monospace code blocks` anytime you reference a command or other source-based item.

**Please Note:** If you need to warn the reader of anything, you can do so with a warning block, like this.
{: .notice--warning}

If asking the reader to execute a command, provide the command in a code block.  

If possible, follow the code block with a table explaining what various elements used by the command mean.

Finally, follow the code block and table with an image showing what the reader should see if they correctly completed the task.

**Execute this command:**
```bash
sfdx force:org:create -a PkgScratch -s -f config/project-scratch-def.json
```

| Salesforce DX Command / Flags   | Description                                             |
| --------------------------------| --------------------------------------------------------|
| `force:org:create`              | Creates a scratch org using values specified in a configuration file |
| `-a (setalias)`                 | Sets an alias for for the created scratch org.          |
| `-s (setdefaultusername)`       | Sets the created org as the default username.           |
| `-f (definitionfile)`           | Path to a scratch org definition file.                  |


**After executing the above, you should see something like this:**

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/W01_U03_vscode-create-test-drive-scratch-org.png" alt="" caption="" %}


## Open the new scratch org 
Introduce the next task to the reader. Remember to use `monospace code blocks` anytime you reference a command or other source-based item.

In the example below, there is addtional commentary explaining the screenshot showing what the reader should see if they were successful.  To support this, there is an ordered (numbered) list placed **after** the phrase "After executing the above..." but **before** the `include figure image_path` liquid tag.

**Execute this command:**
```bash
sfdx force:org:open
```

| Salesforce DX Command / Flags   | Description                                             |
| --------------------------------| --------------------------------------------------------|
| `force:org:open`                | Opens an org in your browser.                           |


**After executing the above, your terminal should look something like this:**

1. You may see a message that the CLI is waiting to resolve your scratch org's custom domain name. This will automatically clear once the domain is resolved.
2. If your default browser does not automatically open to your scratch org, you can copy and paste the special login URL that the CLI provides.  

**Note:** The URL is highlighted yellow for emphasis in the screen shot. It will not appear like that on your screen.
{: .notice--warning}

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/W01_U03_vscode-run-force-org-open-on-test-drive-scratch-org.png" alt="" caption="" %}


## Observe how `orgPreferenceSettings` and `securitySettings` affect scratch orgs
The final task simply asks the reader to navigate to something and make sure that what they see matches the screenshot we're providing.

**Observe the effect of `orgPreferenceSettings`:**

1. In the Setup Quick Find search, type "apex".
2. Click on the "Apex Classes" setup item.
3. Check the "allowed limit" of Apex characters.  This should read `10,000,000`.  Creating scratch orgs with anything set higher than 10MB will require a PM to modify a perm in your Dev Hub.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/W01_U03_testdrive-scratch-org-preference-settings.png" alt="" caption="" %}

**Observe the effect of `sessionSettings`:**

1. In the Setup Quick Find search, type "session".
2. Click on the "Session Settings" setup item.
3. Note that the settings "Enable secure and persistent browser caching..." has been disabled.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/W01_U03_testdrive-scratch-session-settings.png" alt="" caption="" %}